[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And when they do talk about
nutrition in medical school,
it's basically the
five food groups.
Maybe a multi vitamin every day.
Possibly a B12 injection
for people that are elderly.
Maybe for pregnant women, we'd
better increase the folic acid
a little bit.
We should fortify foods with
small amounts of nutrients.
Since we took all
the nutrients out,
we should put a
few of them back.
That's like being
held up and having
somebody take $1,000 from you
and giving you a 5 in change.
It's a very strange
world that we have
when nutrition is the last
thing we look at for therapy.
Dr. Roger J. Williams
who actually discovered
the vitamin pantothenic acid
and was Professor of Chemistry,
very, very brilliant man.
He was introducing the concept
of biochemic individuality
back in the 1940s.
And in the 1950s, he
wrote a series of books.
And into the 60s, on the
nutritional treatment
of alcoholism.
Dr. Abram Hoffer worked
with Bill W., the founder
of Alcoholics Anonymous.
And Bill W. and Abram
became good friends.
Bill W. suffered from
severe depression.
Abram said you should
take some niacin.
He suggested 3,000
milligrams of niacin a day.
That was the end of
Bill W.'s depression.
Bill W. then suggested
to people that
were alcoholic, why don't
you try taking niacin
and see if it helps
your depression.
See if it helps your alcoholism.
And the majority of the
people that tried the niacin
had great improvement.
So Bill W., founder of
Alcoholics Anonymous,
wanted AA to use niacin
and vitamin therapy.
But AA, which had
already been infiltrated,
I would say is a good word,
by the medical profession,
rejected that.
So to this day,
Alcoholics Anonymous
focuses on many laudable steps
that alcoholics can and should
do to stop drinking.
But it does not recommend
vitamin therapy.
We have a nation where the very
thing that will help people
is being presented as
actually dangerous.
There have been
studies that purport
to show that if you take an
extra multivitamin every day
that it's going to hurt you.
And that's just nonsense.
There are studies that purport
to say that vitamin C will
cause a kidney stone.
Well, I've searched
the medical literature.
And I've asked all
my students to search
the medical literature and
my colleagues to search it.
And as soon as they
find scientific evidence
of a vitamin C caused kidney
stone, send me the paper,
send me the reference.
It's been 30 years and
I've never gotten one.
Now either everybody's
dumb or it's a myth.
And I think it's a myth.
A vitamin C caused kidney
stone is a lot like a unicorn.
Now you can imagine a unicorn
in your mind's eye right now.
You could draw a unicorn
if I asked you to.
Everyone knows what a unicorn
is, but they don't exist.
Well everyone knows
what a vitamin C
caused kidney stone is.
But no one's ever seen one.
Because they don't exist.
This is just an example, even
the Journal of the American
Medical Association has
said that vitamin C doesn't
cause kidney stones.
And I get letters which
are just so moving.
I showed them to Colleen, and
she just says, oh my gosh.
There's this one lady
who recently wrote.
And she said, I
read your website,
my son was in an institution.
He was 10 years old.
I start him on
vitamins, he's 11 now,
and you wouldn't know the boy.
He's fine, he's cheerful,
everything is fine.
And all they did was give
him lots of vitamins and lots
of niacin, and the child
completely changed.
And she said, I can't
begin to tell you how--
well everything that
I learned about this
I learned from other people.
All I'm doing is passing
it on, as you well know.
And here's the real kicker.
Dr. Abram Hoffer did the first
double blind placebo controlled
tests in the history
of psychiatry in 1952
with niacin on psychotics.
And he showed and published
that high doses of niacin cure
psychosis.
And it was double blind
placebo control tested,
and it's still ignored.
And if you now bring that up
to a doctor or an academic,
they'll say, well that work
was done over 50 years ago
and you know, it's
not really valid.
And I'm asking two questions.
Just because it's old research,
has the nature of psychosis
really changed a
lot in 50 years?
And has the chemical property
or properties of niacin
changed in 50 years?
The biggest single reason
why people aren't doing this
is that it requires
taking responsibility.
And that is the only way out.
People ask me all the time,
what should I do for this,
what should I do for
that, curbside advice.
They write to me emails,
letters, phone calls
if they had the chance.
They're always
asking, what should
I do, what should I do, what
should I do, what should I do.
As if there is a magic
pill, a vitamin, not a drug,
but still a single magic
pill that they can take.
And that's not true.
There is no magic bullet.
There is no monotherapy that
cures cancer, that cures
heart disease.
But there is a
lifestyle change that
prevents, arrests, and reverses
serious chronic disease.
But it requires, and this is my
answer to them, the following.
They ask me, what should I do.
And I have an answer now.
You have to change
your whole life.
You change your life.
And then they argue
for not changing.
I don't have time to exercise.
I don't like those foods.
My doctor disagrees.
My parents disagree.
I can't afford it.
Oh, there's all these
different reasons.
But in the end, the
people that are desperate
are often the ones who are
most willing to change.
So maybe sickness has a purpose.
Maybe sickness teaches us
to expand our own paradigms.
What I try to do in my
work, my books, my website,
and even the Journal of
Orthomolecular Medicine,
is to provide motivation.
Tell people that you
don't have to be sick.
It's a choice.
And I'm not blaming the
patient when I say that.
If you take a person who's
sick and say, oh, well
you chose to be sick.
That's not it.
What we're really saying
is if you're well,
you have a choice
to be well or sick.
If you're sick, all
right, there you are.
What happened yesterday,
last week, last month,
doesn't matter.
Start now, reverse it.
You don't have to stay sick.
We're not really that
interested in what you did.
Because what you
did didn't work.
So try something new.
The old idea that if you
always do what you always did,
you'll always get
what you always got.
The good news is that people
are not a bunch of dummies.
Abraham Lincoln expressed
that when he said,
you can fool some of the
people all of the time and all
of the people some
of the time, but you
can't fool all of the
people all of the time.
And that's why over
half of the population
now takes vitamins, even
though most doctors would say
that it's really not necessary.
We have a public that's
catching on quicker
than the medical professions.
In a way, it's sad.
But in a way, it's great.
People should stop
being patients
and start being people.
Why not be healthy and happy?
Why not?
You change your life, you do
some exercise, you eat right,
you feel better.
All right, that's good.
You look better.
You live longer.
That's good.
You save money.
And you have the
enormous satisfaction
of having done it yourself.
People think, I don't
have a medical education,
I can't know this.
Oh, please.
How complicated is it to eat
right and drink vegetable
juices and exercise?
You don't need any
degree to know that.
It's too simple to work.
It's cheap.
It's simple.
It's safe.
It's effective.
And therefore, it can't
possibly be the answer.
But it is.
[MUSIC PLAYING]